OSIDS - OPEN SOURCE INTRUSION DETECTION SYSTEM
AUGUST 03 2021
GUERRILLA DYNAMICS, INC.

FREE AS IN FREEDOM AS PER THE GREAT STALLMAN.

CONCEPT:
The idea behind OSIDS is to create a framework of sensors, plugins, software and unique hardware for the purpose of intrusion detection and situational awareness.
OSIDS aim to encompass everything from physical intrusion, cyber alerts and other sensor data bridging the gap between physical, rf and digital in your area of operation. 

DETECTION Overview:
This is an embedded device running open source software frigate which is an object detection framework on your sensor feeds with the ability to send notifications via pushover.
The alert settings are granular to each camera and object specified with rate limiting, snapshot of the event with bounding boxes.
This system is used offline for reliable physical intrusion detection across your perimeter provided you have a camera feed there.
Node-red is used as the method of linking the detection/alert/annunciator.
Frigate uses a lot of cpu resouces or it makes use of a special AI chip released by google. (not to be run on a regular pi without an add-on chip)

How it works:
Frigate monitors the camera feeds 24/7 and uses the COCO dataset to detect objects in frames reliably.
I am then taking the output from frigate and filtering it inside of node-red to send pushover notifications.

UPCOMING:
OSIDS MK1 is the first generation of an all in one hardware device that can handle this task without any programming knowledge.
Simply connect ethernetand USB C power to your OSIDS MK1 and its capable of running all of the OSIDS framework at one time.

Background services:
mqtt
node-red
frigate

TODO:
Integrate with Kismet.
Integrate ATAK as a plugin.
Integrate vehicle make/model api as a plugin.

ANNUNCIATOR Overview: Audible TTS Alerting
The annunciator is a plugin for talkkonnect transceivers. It works by using webhooks and TTS 
to play text to speech in mumble channels with the talkkonnect software.

TRANSCEIVER Overview: Digital RF Transceiver
Relay RF comms over mumble - setup VOX on your radio for 2 way comms.
Purpose built transceiver software for embedded machines (pi) have all appropriate connections setup to soundcard.
Follow the install.sh to setup on your new build. 
Use as police scanner or mumble -> radio / radio -> mumble
